and she looked at him with daggers in
her eyes
well maybe not real daggers but it begs
the question how sharp are your eyes get
it
daggers sharp all right let's move on
each and every person is unique but some
people are more unique than others I'm
talking about you fellow bright ciders
the test you're about to take is too
hard for 92% of people but it should be
a piece of cake for those who regularly
feed their brain riddles and interesting
facts from all spheres of life like you
now before you find out if your eyes
give you the brightest and most unique
vision in the world don't forget to hit
that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side now let's quickly discuss
the rules there will be three stages of
3 questions each and one final bonus
SuperDuper tasks for champions woo your
task will be the same for each question
you'll see 10 different colors and
you'll need to find the odd one out
you'll have 10 seconds for each task 10
colors ten seconds ten tasks now then
only true color recognition gurus can
make it through all the stages they make
up 8% of the population so let's see if
you belong in that group Ready Steady Go
Stage one
[Music]
did you see the odd one out here
I knew you would find it next please hmm
okay that's pretty obvious here's the
odd one out final task of stage one
and done I got them all well that was
just a warm-up before the real thing and
96% of people managed to get through it
stage 2 moving up on the difficulty
scale this one will require more
attention okay that looks vaguely
different or is it the other one who got
it now I see it's stage 2 for a reason
let me take a second look at this one
[Music]
Wow things are getting real I hope it's
the one I picked I knew it
so did you find all the odds in stage
two give us a thumbs up if you did and
welcome to the club of people with
healthy normal eyesight by the way
around 50% of people can't boast of that
before we get to stage 3 let's get your
eyes ready and warm up those muscles to
give your eyes so much work to do so
they definitely deserve a tree how about
some push-ups with your eyes remember
some basic geometry and try drawing
figures with your eyes let's start with
a triangle that was a beautiful one now
let's draw a bigger one that looks good
enough and let's finish the exercise
with a circle you can go back to this
exercise and experiment with figures
whenever you feel your eyes becoming
strained are you ready for the real
challenge because here it comes
stage 3 10 colors 10 seconds plus 100
points on the hardness scale Wow is that
a mistake they clearly look just the
same to me
oh I see this is really subtle hmm
[Music]
the final challenge of stage 3
while that difference is almost
impossible to notice Congrats you're
done with stage 3 if you got them all
it means you belong to the lucky 30% of
the population who got the same result
now it's time for the super duper extra
task I promise this time you'll only
have to choose from four colors don't
get too excited it doesn't make the task
any easier Ready Steady Go
maybe my computer screen is a bit dusty
or blurry those shades of green are just
identical I'll give you 10 seconds to
point out the difference to me five four
three two one and done this should have
been your answer did you get it well in
that case you can proudly call yourself
a superhuman because you clearly have
the superpower of recognizing more
colors than 92% of people out there and
now that you know this it's high time
you learn some cool color recognition
facts here comes the bonus most people
in the world are trichromats that fancy
word means three see where the trike
part comes from three types of cone
cells help them see and recognize colors
each of those types is responsible for
distinguishing between 100 shades
skipping the math part who loves math
after all I can tell you that this means
the average human can see 1 million
different colors colorblind people are
limited to ten thousand shades with two
cones cell types the same is true for
mammals like dogs and monkeys for
example UK neuroscientists recently
discovered a woman who is a tetra chrome
app and can distinguish a fantastic 99
million colors
isn't that cool all this is possible
thanks to an extra type of cone cells in
her eyes while seeing 99 million colors
sounds pretty amazing even 1 million is
enough to enjoy the world around us in
all its glory and if you ask anyone to
name the most
basic and common colors they'll most
likely go with green red white black and
blue however according to philologists
humans didn't recognize the color blue
until modern times
why would language experts know that
well it's because literature is a
wonderful way to record everything
that's going on in the world and there
was not a single mention of blue in the
iconic Odyssey Homer used white dark to
describe the color of the ocean but
never blue William Gladstone a famous
scholar who became prime minister of
Great Britain in 1868 was the first who
have given this topic some serious
consideration philologist Lazarus Geiger
no not a Geiger counter guy went on with
the topic a few years later and
concluded that the word blue wasn't
mentioned in ancient Icelandic Hindu
Chinese Arabic or Hebrew text either
this might have something to do with the
fact that the only vibrant blue thing in
nature is the sky the Egyptians were the
first to use the word blue when they
produced blue dyes and identified them
as such so does the fact that blue
wasn't mentioned in old writings mean
that people of those times couldn't see
blue is there a direct connection
between these two things is this when
jazz groups started playing the blues
oops
just kidding again back in 2006
Jules Davidoff a psychologist from
Goldsmith's University of London studied
the topic and work with the Himba tribe
from Namibia
the Himba don't have a word for blue the
research team asked tribe members to
look at 12 squares 11 of them were green
and one was obviously blue participants
of the experiment failed to find the odd
one out some of them tried to single out
the square that was not like the others
but they failed the Himba in turn have
many more ways to express the concept of
green than we know of and can
distinguish between shades we would see
is the same when Davidoff asked English
speakers to find the odd one out of 12
squares 11 of which were one shade of
green and one slightly differentiate
they failed to do it
now they were singing the blues so did
you manage to go through all three
stages and the extra task tell us in the
comments below don't forget to give us a
like click the subscribe button to stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]